Overhaul & Modernize Origin page (#2298)
PelicanPlatform/pelican: docs/pages/federating-your-data/origin.mdx

Author: I'm going to change these to both italicized and bold.

</Callout>

### Origin Port Requirements

Pelican Origins have two major components -- one is a data transfer endpoint powered by [XRootD](https://xrootd.org/), and the other is a browser interface that lets you configure, monitor, and troubleshoot your Origin and its interactions with a federation.
By design, these two components are hosted behind two separate ports, each dedicated a distinct function.
Pelican has chosen ports 8443 for data transfers and 8444 for the browser interface as defaults, but you may change these port numbers through your Origin's [configuration file](../parameters.mdx) with parameters [`Server.WebPort`](../parameters.mdx#Server-WebPort) and [`Origin.Port`](../parameters.mdx#Origin-Port), respectively.

> In order for Pelican Origins to work properly, **both** of these ports need to be accessible by the federation, which in most cases means they need to be open to the internet. If your server host has a firewall policy in place, please open these two ports for both incoming the outgoing TCP requests.

Author: Resolving these as I edit them locally to keep track of what I've touched -- I'll have the changes up soon.

- [Origin configuration](../parameters.mdx#Origin): Used to specify exports, set up Origin access to the object store, and configure access policies and throttling
- [Server configuration](../parameters.mdx#Server): Used to modify hostname/port setup, configure the server's TLS credentials, and control other aspects of the server runtime
- [Issuer configuration](../parameters.mdx#Issuer): Used for setting up a local [OA4MP token issuer](https://oa4mp.org/) on behalf of the Origin
- [XRootD configuration](../parameters.mdx#Xrootd): Used to control the Origin's underlying XRootD instance
- [Monitoring configuration](../parameters.mdx#Monitoring): Used to tune the Origin's embedded Prometheus instance and the way it records Origin metrics

While each of these sections of configuration may be used to tailor the Origin to a specific use case, several will be required by almost all Origins.
These include the `Federation`, `Server` and `Origin`-level configurations.
Before continuing, it may be worth exploring these sections of documentation to understand which options you may need when setting up your Origin.

> See [Example Configurations](./#example-origin-configurations) for additional examples covering how to combine these into a coherent Origin configuration.

Author: Yes and no -- while I do think we should toss up the yaml configs on the page referenced by that issue, the configs in the section linked to here are meant to be very specific to Origins and they don't cover configuration for anything else.

```yaml
Origin:
  Exports:
    - FederationPrefix: /some/prefix-1
      StoragePrefix: /first/directory
      Capabilities: ["PublicReads", "Writes"]
    - FederationPrefix: /some/prefix-2
      StoragePrefix: /first/directory/subdirectory
      Capabilities: ["PublicReads", "Writes"]
```
</Callout>

Multiple namespaces can be exported by the same Origin but they must all have the same underlying storage type.
That is, if the Origin serves files from POSIX, it can _only_ serve files from POSIX and not objects from S3.
However, separate Origins can serve files from POSIX and objects from S3 under the same namespace prefix, allowing the Origin administrators to aggregate data under a unified namespace.

One additional constraint to be aware of is that failure to advertise any of the prefixes in a multi-export Origin will prevent the entire Origin from functioning.
For example, if your federation requires an administrator to pre-approve namespaces (as does the OSDF) but only a subset of the namespaces from the Origin are approved at the Registry, this will prevent the entire Origin from joining the federation.

> See [Federation Namespace Prefix Registration](#federation-namespace-prefix-registration) for more details.

Author: Yep, and it's even an [open issue](https://github.com/PelicanPlatform/pelican/issues/2127) I'd like to tackle for 7.17. But given how many times I see this come up, I'd like to add it to documentation until it's been rolled out to a new Director.

      # Note this doesn't set Reads -- it's inferred by setting "PublicReads"
      Capabilities: ["PublicReads", "Listings"]
```

The data from this Origin's underlying filesystem is designated as publicly readable, meaning anyone could issue Pelican client commands to interact with it.
For example, if there were a file called `/my/directory/super-cool-data.csv`, it could be downloaded as an object with the following command:
```bash
pelican object get pelican://osg-htc.org/my/namespace/super-cool-data.csv downloaded.txt
```

#### OSDF Origin, Multiple Protected Exports

This example demonstrates a multi-export OSDF Origin that requires token auth for reads/writes:
```yaml filename="pelican.yaml" copy
Federation:
  DiscoveryUrl: https://osg-htc.org

Server:
  WebPort: 443
  Hostname: my-origin.com

Origin:
  # Example of changing the data access port to meet local firewall requirements
  Port: 1234

  StorageType: posix
  Exports:
    - StoragePrefix: /first/path
      FederationPrefix: /prefix-1
      Capabilities: ["Reads", "Writes", "Listings", "DirectReads"]

    - StoragePrefix: /second/path
      FederationPrefix: /prefix-2
      Capabilities: ["Reads", "DirectReads"]
```

> #### UWDF Origin, Multiple Exports, Custom Issuer with Multiuser Feature

Author: What's the hesitancy? I think it adds value to have at least one example that isn't OSDF. UWDF is the only other federation that actually exists AFAIK. I could make up a fake federation, but my opinion is that each bit of fake info I stuff in the examples makes them slightly less useful to real people.

If @bbockelm has a strong reservations, I'll switch to `https://my-federation.com` and remove references to CHTC/UWDF.

This example is more complex than the previous examples because it configures the Origin's ["Multiuser"](../parameters.mdx#Origin-Multiuser) feature and makes use of a non-local token issuer.
This feature is useful for multi-tenant Origins because it lets the Origin's XRootD daemon switch the user it acts as when it reads/writes from the filesystem.
XRootD determines which user to select by examining the auth token's `sub` field.

```yaml filename="pelican.yaml" copy
Federation:
  DiscoveryUrl: https://chtc.wisc.edu

# Configure log levels and log file location
# This is useful for long-running servers whose logs may need to be monitored
# over time for debugging and reliability
Logging:
  LogLocation: /var/log/pelican/origin.log
  Level: "debug"

Server:
  WebPort: 443
  Hostname: chtc-origin.org

Origin:
  StorageType: posix

  # Turn on Multiuser in the Origin and configure scitokens subject mapping
  Multiuser: true
  ScitokensMapSubject: true

  Exports:
    - StoragePrefix: /first/path
      FederationPrefix: /prefix-1
      Capabilities: ["Reads", "Writes", "Listings", "DirectReads"]

>       IssuerUrls: ["https://chtc.cs.wisc.edu.com"]

Author: Ha, good catch -- my fingers were running on autopilot here 😆

## Serving & Administering Your Origin

Once you've drafted your Origin's configuration and handled the pre-requisites from the [Before Starting](#before-starting) section, you're ready to start serving data.
This section covers starting the server, finishing setup through your browser, and basic commands to test the Origin's data access functionality.

### Starting the Origin

Once your Origin's configuration is set, you can serve it immediately with
```bash
pelican origin serve
```

<Callout type="info">
If you installed the `pelican-server` executable from an RPM package, you can daemonize your Origin to always run in the background with `systemctl enable --now pelican-origin`.
This assumes you understand the basics of `systemd` and is only recommended for advanced users.
</Callout>

When you do this, Pelican will read the config file and apply it to your Origin. The first time the Origin is started, you will see something that looks like the following:

```console
$ pelican origin serve

Pelican admin interface is not initialized
To initialize, login at https://localhost:8444/view/initialization/code/ with the following code:
551220
```

> See the [admin website configuration](#login-to-admin-website) documentation section for more information about initializing your Origin's admin website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the ["Login to Admin Website"](#login-to-admin-website) section below for more information about initializing your Origin's admin website.
```

### Additional Command Line Arguments for Origins

This section documents additional arguments you can pass via the command line when serving Origins.

* **-h or --help**: Output documentation on the `serve` command and its arguments.
* **-m or --mode**: Set the mode for the Origin service ('posix'|'s3, default to 'posix').
* **-p or --port**: Set the port at which the Pelican admin website should be accessible.
* **--writeable**: A boolean value to allow or disable writing to the Origin (default is true).

> * **-v

Reviewer: Looks like your train of thought was interrupted here.

Author: I think I was waffling on whether or not to document this option, because it's not the way we'd want someone doing it in a production setting. Here's what I'll go with:
```
* **-v**: A shortcut for configuring docker-style volume mounts/namespace prefixes for the Origin (POSIX only).
For example, `-v /local/path:/federation/prefix` will bind a directory `/local/path` to the namespace prefix `/federation/prefix`.
Use of configuration yaml is strongly preferred over this method because config passed with this flag cannot be picked up by tools like `pelican config summary`.
```

* **-d or --debug**: Enable debugging mode, which greatly increases the Pelican's logging verbosity
* **-l or --log**: Set the location of a file that will capture Pelican logs. Setting this will prevent logging output from printing to your terminal.

For more information about available yaml configuration options, refer to the [Parameters page](../parameters.mdx).

### Login to Admin Website

After your Origin is running, the next step is to initialize its admin website, which can be used by administrators for monitoring and further configuration.
To initialize this interface, go to the URL specified in the terminal.
By default, it should point to `https://localhost:8444/view/initialization/code/`

You will be directed to the page to activate the website with a one-time passcode.
Copy the passcode from the terminal where you launch Pelican Origin and paste to the website to finish activation.

<ExportedImage width={1000} height={1000} src={"/pelican/federating-your-data/origin-otp.png"} alt={"Screenshot of Pelican website activation page"} />

In our case, it's `551220` from the example terminal above.

> **NOTE:** that your one-time passcode will be different from the example.

> > **NOTE:** These one-time passcodes will be refreshed every few minutes.

Reviewer: Suggest converting these to proper callout boxes.

**It is advised that the Origin admin completes the registration as soon as they can**.

<ExportedImage width={1000} height={1000} src={"/pelican/federating-your-data/origin-dashboard-data-exports.png"} alt={"Screenshot of the Data Exports panel on Pelican Origin website dashboard page"} />

The **Federation Overview** panel lists links to various federation services (director, registry, etc.).
Note that the link to the **Discovery** item is the federation discovery URL where the metadata of a federation is located.

<ExportedImage width={1000} height={1000} src={"/pelican/federating-your-data/origin-dashboard-fed-overview.png"} alt={"Screenshot of the Data Exports panel on Pelican Origin website dashboard page"} />

The **Transfer Rate** graph visualizes object transfer metrics like transfer **speed** for both receiving (rx) and transmitting (tx) data.
You may change the time range of the graph by changing the **Reporting Period** and **Graph Settings**.

<ExportedImage width={1000} height={1000} src={"/pelican/federating-your-data/origin-dashboard-graph.png"} alt={"Screenshot of the graph panel on Pelican Origin website dashboard page"} style={{marginTop: 30}} />

> > **NOTE:** This graph may be empty when the Origin first starts, as it takes several minutes to collect enough data for the display.

Reviewer: Suggest converting to a proper callout box.
